                       Collaborative       Net-Knowledge      and

                 The  Motivations   of  Web Masters

                            By  Floyd  Rudmin  &
                             Frode   Svartdal

                           Psychology   Department
                           University   of  Tromso
                           Tromso,   Norway  N-9037

                            FRudmin@Psyk.UiT.No
                            FrodeS@Psyk.UiT.No

                           Norway:   +47-7764-5953
                           Norway:   +47-7764-4345
                    (NOTE:  Norway   is 5  hrs.  ahead  of USA)

  For  submission   to University    of Toronto's   OISE
Conference   on
  Computer   Support  for  Collaborative    Learning   '97,  Dec.
10-14

      The World  Wide  Web  is  a collaborative    knowledge
network  in  that  individuals   organize   presentations    of
information,   including   finding   and linking   to  related
presentations,   in  order  to  share  that  information   with
like-minded,   but  unknown,   internet  users.    Mutually
interlinked   website  rings   are not  unusual.    The
collaborative   quality   of the  internet   is  further
enhanced  by  easy  email  communication    by users   to
webmasters.    Websites   are  modified,   matured,  and  made
increasingly   useful  as  a result   of collaboration    between
websites  and  with  users.    Website  creation   and  use  will
increasingly   be  recognized   as legitimate    domains  of
student  academic   activity.

      This study   randomly  samples   websites   in order   to
survey:  a)  webmaster   demographics   of  age,  gender,
education,   and geography;    b) proportions    of paid  and
unpaid  webmasters;   c)  the  motivations   of  the latter;   d)
collaborative   learning   from  other  websites,   other
webmasters,   and  users;  e)  time  investments   in
researching,   constructing,    and  maintaining   websites;   f)
stages  of development    and  maturation   of websites   and  of
webmasters;   and  g) webmasters'    attributions   of  their
audience.
